I'm clearly a big advocate of having test automation as part of software projects. Automated tests can help in a variety of ways to get better software released to the world faster. But one of my favourite aspects of automated tests is a paradoxical one: I love that when it comes maintaining automated tests, it's great that such tests can be usually be easily deleted. 

It may seem backwards that one my favourite things about automated tests is that I, a test developer, can get rid of them. Let me explain.

Application code typically can't be deleted or removed easily, particularly in production software used regularly. In legacy applications code can be come gnarly or crufty for a whole host of reasons, and often it can be difficult if not impossible to refactor such code cleanly. Code used heavily in production that's considered dangerous to refactor, code that is tangled up with other parts of unrelated parts of the codebase making refactoring complex or developer knowledge being lost are all common reasons why application code can't be removed. This is the case even if there's good business reasons to take down application or remove features. It can be tricky.

On the other hand, test code is usually used internally by teams and are not user-facing. Test code can be removed almost at the drop of a hat since there's no direct impact on the application functionality. As well, it can sometimes be much easier to remove automated tests than to try to refactor them. If particular features under test have changed dramatically or been discontinued, getting automated tests working again can be quite challening. It's easier to simply remove automated tests. Further there can be side benefits such as shorter build times or less test flakiness. There may be a cost in lost coverage or some scenarios not being exercised but that's a team decision, and again one without immediate direct end-user impact.

Personally, I've seen a bunch of situations where it turned out worthwile to delete automated tests and never run them again. This happened in apps or features that weren't active in development and more in maintenance mode. It's also been helpful when building CI/CD pipelines and trying to get down build times as test automation can be a significant portion of those build times. Deleting tests is form of [YAGNI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_aren%27t_gonna_need_it) for test development.

So go ahead and take down those automated tests. 