I think there's a subtle distinction that's been missing from some discussions around test automation and end-to-end test automation. When someone discusses "UI automation" or "GUI automation", it's not always clear whether they are talking about desktop applications, web applications or mobile applications. The distinction is actually pretty critical. This came to me while reading a recent post by [Chris McMahon](http://chrismcmahonsblog.blogspot.ca/2017/11/selenium-implementation-patterns.html). In it, he talks about "browser tests" as a form of UI automation using a browser/web application. This is such a good phrase I've decided to use it more regularly. 

I thought about it more and realized discussing UI automation on a particular platform is not often mentioned in UI automation posts and discussions. I'd like outline such distinctions. Here I'll look at three types of automated testing: desktop app testing ("true" GUI testing), web app testing, and mobile app testing. 

**Desktop App Testing**

Desktop app testing is where an desktop application (think Microsoft Word or an installed calculator app) is tested by controlling it via its graphic user interface (GUI). The application is installed in a standard way on a desktop operating system such as Windows, MacOS or Ubuntu on a physical or virtual machine. Typically tools that control a desktop app for this kind of testing hook into the GUI layer of the app and simulate inputs such as mouse clicks or keyboard commands. It's "true" GUI automation in the sense that the tooling is simulating almost exactly the same actions that a user would be doing with no additional APIs or tooling. 

From a software development perspective, desktop app testing is _very_, _very_ hard. Every operating system platform is different and desktop app automation requires hooking into multiple layers of a given operating system. Often these layers are highly closed source and proprietary and written in low-level system programming languages for optimization purposes. There is also little that may carry over from OS to OS. Mere accessing all these layers and co-ordinating them in a _third party_ tool is no small feat. Things get even more hairy when performance, security and usability of such test tools are taken into consideration. Such challenges are why desktop app automation tools themselves tend to be expensive and closed source, and why only large organizations and apps even attempt to make use of such tools. 

**Web App Testing**

Web app testing is where a web application is tested within a browser (think Facebook or Gmail). The application under test in this case lives entirely (or almost entirely) within a browser that can be opened on a variety of platforms and operating systems. Automated web app testing is the automated browser testing that the above post describes. Here, tools that control a web app for UI automation typically interact with the [Document Object Model (DOM) layer](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction). The DOM isn't the GUI that the user sees and interacts with but is a layer that scripts can interact with (either internal to the web app or external). Tools such as [Watir](http://watir.com/) do this.

Web apps tend to be more open than desktop apps, so there often more flexibility for working with UIs via the DOM. As well, since the DOM is easily accessible on most browsers by design and the DOM is more-or-less standard across browser, most browser testing automation is mostly cross-platform. It's possible to automate an app against several browsers at once, unlike desktop app automation which is almost always destined to be applicable to a single OS at best. This is also why many testing tools for web apps are cheap and free, and often open source.

**Mobile App Testing**

Mobile apps testing is where an an application is tested on a mobile device or environment. This may be a mobile-web version of a web app like [Facebook](https://mbasic.facebook.com/) that or an native application that is installed on a mobile device directly (Snapchat). Here, the mobile app can be tested on a physical device such as phone or an emulator that tries to faithfully recreate the physical device virtually. Mobile web app testing is very similar to web app testing except that automation often needs to occur on a physical device or emulator. Mobile native app is a bit more interesting. 

Since mobile app development is still evolving, there is currently a mix of approaches to automated UI testing of mobile apps. Some approaches are platform-dependent (eg testing an Android app vs an iOS app) while others build on testing tools based on web app testing ([Appium](http://appium.io/)). Mobile native apps tend to blur the distinction between a desktop app and a web app, so automation approaches have appeared based on both automated test approaches above. Lastly, since Android is mostly open source and iOS is definitely not open source, there's a variety of mobile app test automation tooling available. 

While not exhaustive, the above distinctions may help further guide discussion of (G)UI test automation. 