When it comes to two competing projects trying to achieve the same thing, sometimes my mind goes to taking out the trash. Literally. 

A few years ago, the City of Toronto was thinking privatizing its waste removal and garbage collection services. Previously, waste management contracts were negotiated with the City directly, but private contractors were being considered to be allowed to negotiate their own contracts. What ended up happening was that the City of Toronto was divided in half, essentially. One side would get privately owned waste management and the other would get public waste management that were contracted by the City. It was unusual to say the least, at least in the world of municipal waste management.

When asked about why this would be a good thing for Toronto residents, one prominent local politician said that they believed in the power of market competition. What this person meant was that the competition between private contractors and City contractors would force both to do better. Private contractors were generally for-xprofit, and so would optimize for lowering costs and raising (where possible) revenues. City contractors would have different incentives, such as fulfilling their contracts to the best of their abilities and providing good services compared to the private contractors. Both private and City contractors obviously wanted to work for the whole City, not just half. 

While the politician's comments raised some eyebrows since it sounded like a cop-out, I felt it made sense. Torontonians, after all, just want someone to take our garbage. What paperwork is signed behind the scenes or the logistics of private vs public don't matter to most of us (certainly not me). As a city, we just don't want to be down in the dumps, pun intended. 

While two competing projects may not be great for folks involved in both projects, it can be a big benefit for communities. Instead of one mostly good solution, folks might get two competing - and in turn better - options. This may seem like trash at the time, but competition can make communities better overall.