"What time is your meeting? How long, exactly, will it last?"

I find myself asking my wife this question at least once day now. Sometimes, two or three times a day. This question might seem innocent, even banal, but sometimes my whole day's priorities and plans hinge on the answer I get.

In case you're living on a desert island, currently the world is in the midst of a pandemic based on the [SARS-CoV-2 virus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Severe_acute_respiratory_syndrome_coronavirus_2). In my case, this means that myself and my wife have been working at home for the past month while we also take care of our 4 year old. It has been a roller coaster ride of emotions and thinking, but I'd like to focus on how this has effected my way of thinking about estimation and project delivery.

Estimating features and delivery times on software projects is a hotly debated topic, online and elsewhere. I've mildly paid attention to these discussions, approaches that people have taken to optimize estimation or to remove dependency on estimation overall. I understand most of the concerns - estimates very quickly becomes targets, an estimate is a guess based on a prayer, and so on - but haven't really but much thought into how estimates can truly affect project outcomes or productivity. Now, during the time of Covid-19, I do.

Trying to balance my work duties (meeting with coworkers and external folks, getting tasks done, writing code and/or emails) along with having a kid at home full time (preparing meals and snacks, completing school work, generally keeping kids entertained) is difficult. There are two parents in this household, which I am eternally grateful for, but since we both work we need to coordinate our work duties and schedules to balance things out during the day.

What I've learned, however, is that my day now depends in large part on my partner's schedule. If we have enough overlapping meeting times, there's a chance the day will be a total wash in terms of productivity. And where her meetings finish when mine begin, or vice versa, there's a critical planning for hand-off in duties. While this might seem fairly straightforward, the real spanner in the works is when meetings don't end up going as planned. A five minute meeting might turn into a 30 minute one, or meetings that have been on the calendar for weeks get moved or cancelled. Merely being aware of when each others' meetings are can sometimes be a challenge. If I'm in enough meetings over the day when there's school work and dinners to make, my productivity can easily go downhill fast. 