Exploratory Testing - BuiltIn

In modern software development, Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) are some of the hottest topics around. Teams want to move faster and release more often while maintaining good overall product quality and keeping users happy. One approach that helps teams achieve these goals is to built out a continuous delivery pipeline, where as many steps are automated as much as possible. This includes automated testing, which - I think - has been shown to provide value for many teams by preventing bugs from getting to development much earlier in the development pipeline. But in building these automated pipelines, one question that often comes up from testers: where does exploratory testing fit in? And what value can exploratory testing bring to modern software built using CI/CD approaches?

The answer is - in my opinion - that exploratory testing can provide plenty of value, and can provide value throughout the software development lifecycle. The key for software testers (and software development teams) is that with CI/CD, there is a change in mindset that needs to happen. This change is going from thinking in terms of _mean time to failure_ to going towards _mean time of recovery_. In a traditional software development lifecycle, testers explored an application under test to uncover issues, defects and bugs, and relay that information back to stakeholders. This is a mean time to failure way of thinking - how soon can a tester find a bug or issue? This mindset is preventive, focusing on finding problems before a big release or build. But in the world of CI/CD practices, software is never "done", and changes can roll out continuously. Here, exploratory testers should think about how quickly bugs and issues can be resolved. They need to ask "is there a problem here?" and if there is, how soon can this problem be solved? Sometimes bugs can be caught so early on that almost no one sees them. Other times, an exploratory tester may only find an issue in production. Working with CI/CD, testers can work with other team members to address and resolve issues as quickly as possible. Since CI/CD focuses on fast and painless updates, this mindset can be effective.

Both automated testing and exploratory testing can be thought of as specialists in an Agile context. Exploratory testers bring skills in exploring applications and processes and communicating back information to stakeholders effectively. Automated test specialists can build out good automated test approaches in a CI/CD pipeline that address various layers of an application under test. Working together, both approaches can reveal issues and bugs efficiently, without slowing down the team.