This past Thursday was my last day at my former job as a test developer. I've taken a new position that's more data science oriented, so for now I've left the world of software development and test development.

I have to say it's been good and I'm glad to have had the experiences I did. I'd like to say a few things based on my six years of experience.

**Every Developer Should Be a Test Developer (for a litle while)**
Test development - broadly defined as development involving automated tests, checking and infrastructure - is a pretty cool area of software development. It often combines both software testing and software development in interesting ways, giving test developers some exposure to both disciplines. Good test development really means looking not just at writing feature and code but also at building processes and quality assurance (in the best possible sense). Test code needs to run against something, and it should run against that something in a logical manner. This usually means either fitting tests into existing build pipelines or setting up build pipelines that are needed. 

Based on my experience, being a test developer can really broaden a developer's skill set. It means learning how to use specific tools like test frameworks or particular test tools, but it also helps communication skills since test developers usually end up working with several teams at various touch points of an app or project. Test developers can have big impacts and work on very interesting software projects. I'd definitely recommend someone who wants to grow as a software developer spend some time working as a test developer. 

**Automation is Essential for Modern Software Development**
Automation is one of the sexiest things in software these days. Everyone wants a continuous deployment pipeline, or continuous development or somesuch. From my experience, automation can provide a lot of bang for your development buck when used judiciously. For example, continuous integration services have gone from something only for large software outfits to [something that almost any dev can get in the cloud](http://simplythetest.tumblr.com/post/151484057075/brief-thoughts-on-the-pace-of-change-in-software). Package managers and build systems are almost required programming language features these days. Mainstream browsers have a large set of developer tools available by default to all users. Source control via Git and services like BitBucket and Github are fairly high powered with respect to developer hooks and automated processes. When you step back and take a look at software development in 2016, automation has impacted software development all over the place in both obvious and subtle ways. Learning to use automation smartly is, in my opinion, one of the most important skills for a software developer. 

Those are my thoughts on test develoment. Maybe I'll see it again soon. 