Often, kindness wins. Being nice is, well, pretty nice. And this absolutely holds true in the digital realm as well as the physical. 

A couple of things triggered this thought in the past few days. The first was seeing a tourism website for place I'm visiting later this week in the US. The site looked good except that when I hovered over the menus at the top, the menus expanded _behind_ the title photo and were effectively useless (I won't link to the site here. You'll have to trust me). This behaviour was the same in multiple browsers. When I told my wife about this, she said I should I do a good deed and message the site maintainers about this. Before that comment, I was thinking of posting something snarky about this site needing testers. Her comments made me think differently, and after some thought I realized it would've been in poor taste to slam this website. I sent a polite email explaining the situation and went on my way. I'm pretty happy with this result. 

Today I read a post from Om Malik who had a somewhat similar situation [with an online food delivery service getting his order sent to the wrong place](http://om.co/2016/09/12/the-nicer-internet/). It's a bad but understandable mistake and Om goes through a similar thought process as I did. He first thinks about publicly berating the service but then thinks better of it. Like me, he feels better about that approach after the fact. 

Sometimes it's really easy to write incendiary pieces when a product or service (or person!) does something badly. It allows you to vent frustrations, even minor ones. It's also usually enjoyable as most rage-quit or click-bait type pieces are. Plus the Web tends to reward outrage but not thoughtful non-action or nuance. And in the software testing world, sometimes big personalities see benefit in being blustery with their approach. 

I'm learning that being snarky and mean _online_ is one approach but not always the _best_ approach. There are other ways and some of those work pretty well. 

(I still reserve the right to post awful click-bait wherein I deem appropriate or necessary.)