You never know what will resonate with people.

I'd like to follow up on a previous post where I said that [test developers aren't test developers](http://simplythetest.tumblr.com/post/169623787610/test-developers-arent-testers). It seemed to get a fairly large response on Twitter, with lots of retweets and commentary. 

Overall, the [best response](https://twitter.com/techgirl1908/status/963974744016998401) was from automation engineering rockstar Angie Jones. When I wrote about how testers and test developers are different roles, she commented "I constantly push for the industry to value both roles. One doesn't replace the other, and having one person attempt to do both is usually counter-productive, as they are two different jobs." I couldn't agree with this statement more, and honestly couldn't put it any better than Angie did. I do feel like I didn't make clear that I think both testers and test developers are valuable roles and would advocate having both roles on a team where possible.

I also think that while being a tester and being a test developer are distinct and should require distinct mindsets, it's also possible for a tester become a test developer, as well as for a test developer to become a tester. While they're similar roles, there is a slightly different skill set needed for each. Testers need to get familiar with automation tooling and programming to become a good test developer, while test developers need to learn how to think more holistically about product quality. That said, starting out a tester and moving into test development can be a natural next step for many people, and similar for a test developer moving to a tester role.

One last point: I'm still mulling over idea that a one should be a good tester before becoming a good test developer, or even what the relationship is between being "good" at test development and being "good" at testing. Since they're distinct roles, I don't think there's an obvious relationship. Someone can be a good at automation and not so good at testing or thinking about software quality. Someone can also be a good tester without really having any test development experience or skill. My instinct is that as more software development roles blur together, we'll see "testing specialists" and "test development specialists" that also have general purpose skills to work well on a given team. But I'm not completely sure about this. 