This past week I had the pleasure of going to [SeleniumConf 2019](https://seleniumconf.co.uk/) in wonderful London, England. It was a great time with fine people. I'm still processing everything that happened but I'm trying to get some stand-out ideas I had while I was there. 

One thing that came up after [Richard Bradshaw's](https://twitter.com/FriendlyTester) great keynote on his journey into testing - which will be available on the [SeleniumConf YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/seleniumconf) at some point soon - was the difference between styles of development and using test automation in European companies versus North American companies. One of my colleagues mentioned that while he sees the vast majority of American software companies moving toward continuous integration/continuous delivery, European firms are much less inclined and still do a lot of exploratory testing in addition to automated testing as part of their software development. 

Of course when I heard about contrasting approaches to using test automation and continuous delivery in North America and Europe, my mind obviously went to tomatoes.

A while back I read this article about [why Italian tomatoes taste better than American tomatoes]((https://www.treehugger.com/green-food/why-doesnt-american-produce-taste-good-europes.html)). It turns out that differences in quality and taste in Italian tomatoes from American tomatoes are real, and it has to do with preferences Italians have for particular species of tomato. Tomatoes in Italy and other parts of Europe are selected by seasonality, sweetness and overall taste and quality. Italians are happy to have tomatoes available mainly during growing seasons and to have tomatoes available be the best tasting tomatoes possible. Americans, by contrast, prefer tomatoes and other produce that is hearty, can travel long distances and look unblemished. This allows for tomatoes to be more uniformly available year-round and readily available. In a sense, Europeans are trading for taste over scale, while Americans are trading for scale over taste. Both cultures have the ability to grow whatever tomatoes they want, but each one chooses according to different tradeoff. 

In case you feel I'm cherry picking an example - cherry tomato picking, if you will - it also looks like Americans feel the same way about coffee, preferring to have [readily available cheap coffee](https://www.seriouseats.com/2015/10/the-case-for-bad-coffee.html) instead of having less but higher quality coffee.

These underlying cultural preferences may explain some of why American and European software development methodologies differ. While I'm quite confident there's other factors, cultural differences are certainly one thing to consider.

One thing I've been thinking about lately is the relationship of continuous delivery to software quality. The entire focus of continuous delivery is to make releasing new software as quick and painless as possible, with a side benefit being that it is quicker and easier to release patches and bug fixes. This could lead to higher quality software being shipped to end users, but it also might not. A poor product understanding or user experience design could lead to shipping bad software more frequently. While I think continuous delivery _could_ help improve quality, there isn't a guarantee that this will be the case.

If a team wants the _best possible_ user experience, the team may want to do extensive exploratory testing and design work even at the expense of shipping less frequently. Based on some cultural considerations, this may be the mindset taken by many European teams. If a team wants to ship the _most extensive_ product possible _at scale_, that team may favour continuous delivery without as much exploratory testing. This clearly is a more American mindset. 

Of course there's a lot of room for nuance in this topic of why American and European teams differ so much in their methodologies. It could also come down to wanting something all the time, or waiting until just the right moment.